[Music]
so you're sitting at home watching some
top-notch Brightside videos and sipping
on hot chocolate hey few things in life
are better
nothing boats trouble until you're
screamed suddenly goes black what the
you move the mouse nothing push the
power button still no life I must have
accidentally knocked the cord out of the
wall somehow you check it and
everything's plugged in you've been so
preoccupied trying to revive your PC
that you didn't even notice the room got
darker the house is uncomfortably quiet
too
you can't hear the refrigerator the fan
standing in the corner of the room is
silent and still
but then the worst thing the lights on
your Wi-Fi router stop blinking great
the power's out this I'll just sit here
and play on my phone until they turn it
back on yeah good luck with that a
person can go without food for a couple
of weeks water for a few days
air for mere minutes but without
electricity it's hard to say it all
depends on where you live what survival
skills you have and how much you depend
on the conveniences of living on the
grid like the supermarkets that store
and sell your food which they got thanks
to factories that mass-produce it or
even farmers that grow it themselves but
let's see what would happen to humanity
if electricity disappeared for say a
year look let that games begin just not
on your smartphone day one
late afternoon there's a bit of charge
left on the phone but your mobile data
isn't working
nobody suspects that communication
towers have shut down which means no
calls
not even emergencies for now all you
know is the internet is gone how long do
you think you'd make it let me know down
in the comments you don't have any
offline games either your phone is
nothing more than an overpriced
calculator now guess I'll go for a walk
before the Sun Goes Down
you head to your favorite cafe hey why
not grab a latte to pass the time
the barista cut you off as soon as you
walk in the door sorry all our machines
are down from the power outage okay
there goes that idea
you walk around aimlessly still trying
to catch a signal on your phone you and
everyone else standing around looking at
their screens and confusion and
frustration you overhear a group of
people talking about a nasty crash on a
busy intersection oh yeah
traffic lights don't work now and the
cars will soon go along with them once
the gas and their tanks run out it's not
like in Philip it stations they like the
cafe need electricity - on that note you
decide you're better off heading back
home evening first things first
a nice hot shower to wash this crazy
situation away no tap the toilet doesn't
flush either yes public services like
plumbing heating and cooling go to an
outage like this is a lot more serious
than just losing your lights especially
when it's prolonged no TV no PlayStation
no nothing man why does anything fun
have to be plugged in fine I'll read a
book you start lighting some candles you
check outside the window to see if other
homes have gotten their electricity back
it's the darkest you've ever seen the
city all you notice our dimly lit
windows everyone else is lighting
candles too you look up at the sky stars
without street lights and lit up homes
and businesses the night sky looks
breathtaking well at least there's that
day - the perishables in your fridge
have long reached the point of no return
you throw out your milk eggs cheese and
so on the same goes for all the
refrigerated and frozen products at
grocery stores and restaurants the
entire city reeks of spoiled produce
over the next few days maybe you can get
something else at the store you better
have some cash on you card readers
aren't going to work neither will ATMs
anyone
money in the bank now has no access to
it emergency generators are already
running out all over the world the most
powerful models can only go for 24 hours
max factories are at a standstill food
production for seven and a half billion
people has come to a screeching halt
two weeks without electricity as kitchen
cabinets and pantries run dry panic
begins a lot have even taken to helping
themselves at local stores they really
need that bottled water you decide to
get out of town can't fly the airports
have been closed if only you had a
little turboprop like a Cessna Skyhawk
at least your car has some gas in it but
besides you hundreds of thousands of
people leave the city as well you'll
spend the whole day in a traffic jam one
month without power the global economy
is plummeting commerce banking trade
national and personal debt but they're
just gone overnight without public
services the garbage has piled up on the
streets rats come out of the sewers
this city is theirs now but it's good
that you already left this chaos a long
time ago three months off the grid you
knew there was no way you could just up
and start a farm and be self-sufficient
like many people you turn to relatives
for support lucky for you your Uncle Joe
and Aunt Sue have been living off the
grid their whole lives but you have to
help out around the homestead two gone
are the days when you get to eat simply
because you paid for food now you must
earn it through physical labor six
months without power small communes have
sprouted up everywhere people extract
water from wells they stay fed thanks to
agriculture and fishing without money we
go back to bartering need another sheep
then traded for a pig still humanity
even begins to wean off electricity but
day 365
light appears well that is if the
equipment at power stations is
operational after a year without
maintenance it probably isn't
once they fix things up and electricity
is back it'll take at least ten years to
fully restore the economy infrastructure
in production so in a nutshell we'd go
back to living how we did before we ever
had electricity but now I can only
wonder what happens if natural
electricity disappears like lightning
around 50 to 100 lightning bolts strike
the planet every single second our world
needs lightning every time a bolt lights
up the sky it puts off ozone that word
sound familiar yep there's a layer of it
in the atmosphere that protects the
earth from harmful ultraviolet and
cosmic radiation lightning benefits the
planet in lots of other ways too but
I'll save that for a future video so
let's move on electromagnetic fields
let's go back to the moment you were
watching YouTube and the power went out
if all electricity disappeared I'm not
just talking about power outages but
electrical energy itself then you'd
notice all the magnets had fallen off
your fridge all because they lost the
power of electromagnetism if there were
no more electromagnetic fields in the
universe then things go south very
quickly
electromagnetic fields make all atoms
and molecules stick together to form
tangible matter that is you me and
everything around us without that
magnetic glue everything would fall
apart and dissipate yes
thanos style no more light and time
itself going off that last note you've
got your molecules made up of atoms
flying around each of those atoms are
electrons they not only rotate but also
repel each other because of electric
charge
aha so that's where the name comes from
such repulsion is necessary to restrain
the greatest force in the universe
gravity and gravity compresses
everything around so if the charge in
the electrons disappears and they stop
repelling then gravity will begin to
squeeze them together with such force
that a black hole will arise and begin
to absorb all matter even if you somehow
managed to survive such an event you
wouldn't be able to see anything because
gravity also absorbs photons which are
particles of light absolute darkness
will come everything will become nothing
and this will continue for a whole year
although wait the concept of a year will
cease to exist
because gravity will distort not only
space but also time new beginnings let's
say some time is passed whatever that
means now and electricity returns what
will happen then Oh Big Bang the
universe will be shocked into life
electrons will return to their repelling
atoms and molecules will work again but
it'll take billions of years to get back
to where we are now good thing this is
all purely hypothetical a little
fantastical thanks to my wandering mind
and certainly not possible so keep
sipping on your hot chocolate and
enjoying that too
hey while you're still here give the
video a like and share with a friend and
here are some other cool videos to check
out just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life